# JSON file Validation and Autoamtic Versioning Action
This workflow is designed to scan through a defined directory(e.g. src-data) and use jq (https://jqlang.org/) to validate each JSON file within that directory and its subdirectories. On successful validation of all files a versioning wrokflow is triggered to increment the most recent version and generate a release. This full workflow is triggered only when a JSON file is changed or added to the relevant directory.
---
## Relevant files in order of deployment..
1. validate-jsons.yml
    - This script is set to trigger on workflow dispatch or when a JSON file only is changed or added in the src-data directory. This can be changed to run on any branch however the 'store-src-data' branch is set to default since this is the branch that holds the required search directory. Each JSON file is scanned with jq and the names and associated error message of any files that fail the validation check are printed explicity to the action logs once all files have been scanned. The workflow is specifically designed to scan all JSON files regardless of if a previous file has failed. This means mutliple faulty files can be flagged in a single run rather detecting invalid JSONs one at a time. If faulty files are found, the number of faulty files, the filenames and their associated error messages are printed to the action logs. If all files pass the validation checks, a message is printed to the logs stating that all files have passed successfully.
    - NOTE: This action has been designed to be able to cope with filenames that contain spaces (tested) and should also be able to tolerate filenames that include special characters (not explicitly tested). This action will also ignore any filenames that do not end with the .json suffix.
2. versioning.yml
    - This script is designed to trigger only on the successful validation of all JSON files through the validate-jsons.yml action. If this action fails, the versioning action will not run. This uses a v1.0.0 (major.minor.micro) versioning scheme where major changes are structural changes, minor chinges are for updates to content and micro are for bug fixes. The workflow identifies the most recent version and increments it by one. It then creates release notes and deploys the release automatically. 